.TH sqlrsh 1 "2002-06-10" "interactive query tool" SQL\ Relay

.SH NAME
sqlrsh \- interactive query tool for SQL Relay

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sqlrsh
\fIhost port socket user passwd \fR[\fIscript\fR]
.br
.B sqlrsh
[-config \fIconfigfile\fR] -id \fIid \fR[\fIscript\fR]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sqlrsh
is an interactive query tool similar to (though not as powerful as)
SQL Plus, mysql, psql, isql and the like. Run it and type
.B help;
at the prompt for detailed usage instructions. When sqlrsh starts up,
it reads and executes two rc files, the system rc file
(/etc/sqlrelay/sqlrshrc on Debian) and a personal rc file .sqlrshrc in
your home directory. These files should contain sqlrsh commands,
ending in semicolons, seperated by carraige returns. Any commands may
be used in the rc files, even queries.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fIhost\fR
hostname of the machine running the listener daemon
.TP
\fIport\fR
port number the listener daemon is listening on, for local or remote connections
.TP
\fIsocket\fR
socket the listener daemon is listening on, for local connections
.TP
\fIuser\fR
SQL Relay user name (as per config file)
.TP
\fIpasswd\fR
SQL Relay password (as per config file)
.TP
\fB-config\fR \fIconfigfile\fR
config file to use (default /etc/sqlrelay/sqlrelay.conf)
.TP
\fB-id\fR \fIid\fR
instance to use (as per config file)
.TP
\fIscript\fR
script (containing sqlrsh commands and queries) to run (default ~/.sqlrshrc)

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBsqlrsh "" "" /tmp/examplesocket fred secret\fR
Connect to the SQL Relay listener daemon running on the local
machine, with socket \fB/tmp/examplesocket\fR, as user \fBfred\fR,
with password \fBsecret\fR.
.TP
\fBsqlrsh dbsvr 9000 "" fred secret\fR
Connect to the SQL Relay listener daemon running on the remote
machine \fBdbsvr\fR, on port \fB9000\fR, as user \fBfred\fR,
with password \fBsecret\fR.
.TP
\fBsqlrsh -id example\fR
Connect to the SQL Relay listener daemon for instance \fBexample\fR
(as defined in /etc/sqlrelay/sqlrelay.config).

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBfields\fP(1),
\fBquery\fP(1),
\fBsqlr-config-gtk\fP(1),
\#\fBsqlrsh\fP(1),
\fBsqlr-cachemanager\fP(8),
\fBsqlr-connection\fP(8),
\fBsqlr-listener\fP(8),
\fBsqlr-scaler\fP(8),
\fBsqlr-start\fP(8),
\fBsqlr-stop\fP(8),
and the documentation in /usr/share/doc/sqlrelay.

.SH AUTHORS
This manual page was written by Andreas Tille <tille@debian.org> and
Florian M. Weps <fweps@pop.agri.ch>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system
(but may be used by others).
